Helen, I'm Dr. Jonathan Barker, pastor here at Amazing Grace Baptist Church in Mount area, North Carolina.
I would like to personally thank you for taking out time today to tune in to our preaching podcast.
We hope that this message will be a great encouragement to your heart today.
Turning the book of Isaiah chapter 53.
And the Lord laid on my heart a message some time back and
I've only preached it one time, but I'm going to preach it again tonight.
And I hope it's a blessing to you.
Now, when I get into it, don't think that what I'm preaching is really gruesome and bloody.
But what I'm going to be preaching on tonight is the scars at Christ's border.
The scars at Christ's border.
How many of you ever heard a message on the scars?
Nobody?
Praise the Lord, brother John.
I'm going to be the first.
Amen.
Anyhow, the Bible says as we stand on our feet and read the scripture, I'm going to start in verse number 52 and verse number 14.
Verse 14 says, and many were astounded they, his visage was so marred more than any man in his form more than the sons of men.
Then I come over to chapter 53 in verse number two.
If you've got an old school field Bible, that's page 760.
If you ain't got one, y'all get one.
Amen.
He said in verse two, for he shall grow up before him as a tender plant.
And he says, as a root out of dry ground, that's a reference to Jesse.
Jesse is the root out of dry ground.
And so that's in reference to Jesse.
Jesse was David's, uh, daddy, I believe they got that right.
Brother Jonathan.
All right.
But, uh, anyhow, my mind works sort of slow once in a while, but never land.
It'll pick up, but nevertheless he says there and he has no form nor comeliness.
That means that he was not very good looking.
He was not pretty to look at.
Now I know you little girls out there like to find good looking men, but you wouldn't find that in Jesus.
But he says there, he has no form of nor comeliness.
And when we shall see him, there is no beauty that we should desire him.
He is despised and rejected of men, a man of sorrow and acquainted with grief.
And we hid as it were our faces from him.
He was despised and we esteemed him not.
Surely he hath borne our griefs and carried our sorrows.
Yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God, and afflicted.
But he was wounded for our transgressions.
He was bruised for our iniquities.
The chastisement of our peace was upon him, and with his stripes we are healed.
All we like sheep have gone astray.
We have turned everyone to his own way, and the Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all.
He was oppressed,
and he was afflicted and yet he opened not his mouth.
He is brought as a lamb to the slaughter as a sheep before her shears is dumb.
So he opened it, not his mouth.
He was taken from the prison and from judgment.
And who shall declare his generation for he was cut off out of the land of the living for the transgression of my people was he stricken and he made his grave with the wicked and with the rich in his death.
because he had done no violence, neither was any deceit in his mouth.
Father, in Jesus' name, I do praise you tonight.
And I do thank you, Lord, for this opportunity.
And I thank you, Lord, the Father, for the message that you've given me and for the thought that you laid on my heart.
I ask you now, Father, that God, Lord, as I preached this message, Father, that God, Lord, you'd help me tonight.
Lord, as only you can.
I need the feeling of the Holy Spirit
And I need him to be teaching me as I go along.
And Father, I praise you and I thank you for what you do.
For I ask you all this in Jesus' name, amen and amen.
You may be seated.
Notice in verse number 14 of chapter 52.
I feel like I'm stepping on something right there.
Is there something right there in that floor?
I didn't know what it was, but anyhow, let's get from it back.
But anyhow, run to verse 14.
The Bible says there, his visage was so marred.
You say, what does that mean preacher?
It means that what Christ was so marred beyond that of a man.
He didn't even look like a human.
He didn't look like a person that you would think that we would be seeing on the streets, you see, but he was so marred and his visage was so marred.
That word visage means his appearance, you see.
Then we come on down to verse number two, and he says, he has no form of comeliness.
There's no beauty that we should desire him.
What I see there is that Christ following verse 14 there in chapter number two of 52, we find there that he is nothing to be, nothing to be, just be seen, you might say.
And so what I'm trying to say to you is he had no form of common and there was no beauty in him.
So when I got to thinking about this message, however, that Christ was beautiful and lovely in the sight of the Christian people.
I think you can't find nobody any prettier than he is.
But what I want you to notice what Solomon wrote about his beauty.
The Bible says there in chapter one in verse 16, he says, thou art fair.
He says not only that, but he was pleasant to look at.
And then you get over chapter two and verse a song of Solomon, chapter one.
He's called the Rose of Sharon and the Lily of the valley.
And then I want to flip over here for just a moment and show you what he said here in chapter number five and verse number 11 through 16.
Now I'm just going to read you the highlights of that.
The Bible says there in chapter five and verse number 11, he says this, his head is as the most fine gold.
You can't find no, nothing, no precious and gold.
And so he goes on down in verse number 12 says, his eyes are as the eyes of doves by the rivers of waters.
Verse 13 says his cheeks are as sweet flowers, his lips like lilies drooping sweet smelling myrrh.
And then you get up here into verse number 16 and the Bible says he's all together lovely, all together lovely.
You can't find nobody any prettier than Jesus.
You see, I can find the most beautiful woman and the most handsome as man in the world, but they will not compare to what Jesus looks like.
That's what I want you to understand with me today.
Now most always as we read our Bible, most always we do not see the beauty of Christ.
and His loveliness as He walks upon earth.
But what we do see, what we do see most, we most visualize is in Him is the cruelty.
And not only the cruelty and the brutality, but the Savior faced a whole lot of that during His ministry here on earth.
And that's what we visualize most of the time.
But then we get down here to Isaiah 52, verse 14, it says that His visage was so large.
The Bible says over here in chapter number two, 53 and verse number two, he says, for he shall grow up before him a tender plant.
And it says that he has no form nor comeliness.
And when we see him, we won't desire him.
There's a lot of people in the world today that do not desire the Lord.
I'm glad that I belong to the group that belongs to him that desires to see him one day.
And that's looking for him one day.
But I want you to notice something here.
He says in verse number three, he says there, he is despised and rejected.
And not only that, and I think about what they've done to him, what they've done to him over in Matthew chapter number 26 and verse number 66 and 67.
It says, what thank ye, they answered and said he is guilty of death.
He didn't do nothing to die for.
Then he goes on to say,
Then did they spit in his face and buffet him and others smote him with the palms of their hands.
Micah chapter five and verse number one says that they have reeds in their hands.
And I don't know whether they had reeds in their hands right here or not.
But one thing I do know is what the Bible says.
And that was a prophecy of what was going to take place in his life near the crucifixion time.
Now I want you to notice something.
We get down to verse number five and let me get back over where I'm floating to be.
We get down here in verse number five and it said, but he was wounded for our transgressions.
He was bruised for our inequities.
The chastisement of our peace was upon him and with his stripes we are healed.
That right there to me tells more about what they've done to him than it does in the four gospel.
in the full gospel.
And that's what we're going to be at tonight.
Matthew, Mark, and Luke, and John all talk about the crucifixion and the tortures that he went through.
The Bible tells us that, and gives us a description of the tortures that he met with.
Back over in Matthew, chapter 26 and 67, look at this again.
Then did they spit upon in his face
That's the most disrespectful thing a man can do to anybody is to spit in their face.
And they done that to him showing their disrespect for him.
And he goes on to say, and they buffeted him.
You know what that word buffet means?
How many of you think you know what it means?
I'm gonna help you out if you don't know.
I'm gonna tell you anyhow.
But anyhow, that word buffet means to repeatedly, I mean repeatedly, repeatedly,
just hit with your fist.
And that's what they did with him.
They buffeted him.
They repeatedly spit in his face and they repeatedly kept beating his face and beating his face and beating his face.
Now, if I get beating my face a whole bunch of times, something's gonna happen.
I'm gonna have a bloody nose.
I'm gonna have a couple of black eyes.
My lips are gonna be busted and swelled up.
And so this is what I want you to see here.
And so we're gonna be talking about the scars that he bore.
And so when I get over here to verse number, chapter 27, verses 27 through 30, it talks about the soldiers of the governor took Jesus into the common hall.
In John chapter 19 and verse number one, it says that Pilate had him scourged.
That word scourged means to be whipped.
And that's what I'm talking about tonight.
And so anyhow, it says there that
They spit upon him to the reed and smote him on the head.
I believe they smote him on the head after they put the crown of thorns on him.
If you look at it, and let me tell you something about them thorns.
They weren't these little bitty briars that you find on the rose bush.
They were thorns about that long, about four or five inches long.
Now can you imagine having that thing put on your head?
And I don't think they put it on their
easily either like you put on a cap.
I think it went boom, like that.
Boy, that hurt.
But what I'm trying to tell you is this right here.
Those thorns pierced his crown.
And it's bound to have dug into the scalp a little bit.
And then they take it, a reed in their hand and smote him on the head with it to drive those thorns a little bit deeper.
Think about that.
And so when I think about all this, I think about what he'd done for you and for me.
Every scar that he bore on his skin, every scar that he bore on his body, my friend, was for you and for me.
It was for you and for me and nothing else.
And I'm gonna get a little bit deeper in that in just a few moments.
But I want you to notice first of all the scars.
And yet we find the scars that were left by his most gruesome tortures.
These scars were literal scars.
Not no spiritual scar, but literal scars.
And so you say, well, how do you know that?
Because he told old Stephen over, he said, look at the scars in my hand.
Put your hand in my side.
And that's what they did.
And old Thomas learned to believe in Christ then, I believe.
But what I'm trying to tell you, he wasn't no doubting Thomas no more.
Thomas not Stephen.
I got that mixed up.
I'm sorry.
But Thomas not Stephen.
But what I'm trying to tell you though, he wasn't a doubting Thomas no more.
But he was proved to that Jesus was who he was and that he had came back.
One thing that's good about all the torture that he went through that he died and he went and put was put in a grave and out of that grave after three days, he come out of that grave
You know my friend, to show you that we have some hope and we have some life in the future to come.
And not in the future in all this earth, but in the future in glory is what I'm talking about.
Now what don't you see here?
Paul said in 2 Corinthians 5, 21, for he has made him to be sin for us who knew no sin.
Everything was put on him
All those scars that was put on him was because of sin.
All of it.
Now let me get to the point now.
I got four or five points here.
I want to preach to you.
Then I want to give you some application.
Okay?
The first scar.
How about the scars of the scorners?
Who were the scorners?
Well, the Bible says over in chapter number 26 of Matthew and about number first
Verse number 68, I believe, 67, 68, it says, those scorners were the ones that disrespected him and spit on him and buffeted him and tortured him with the palms of their hands and maybe their fists because your fist, my friend, is attached to that hand.
And so can you imagine just anybody, and I don't think they come up and give them a little love tap either.
I think they rared back and just gave him a powing.
I believe that with all my heart and soul.
But they smote him and just that crowd just kept on coming by and smiting him and hitting him and beating on him.
Until finally, you might say he was beat to a pulp.
You know, I don't know.
I'm spiritualizing a little bit of this.
I'm just reading between the lines.
But what I'm trying to tell you is he wore the score, the scars of those corners.
If nothing else, he wore that scar in his mind of them spitting on him and disrespecting him.
But what I want you to know today, the Bible says he was despised and rejected.
And that word, both, it simply means they kept hitting him and hitting him and hitting him.
Can you just imagine me standing up here and letting everyone of y'all come by here and hitting me just as hard as you can?
That's the way it was with him.
I mean, the crowd come by there and spit on him, and I can just see him now, this face just drenched with saliva, disrespecting him.
And then not only that, every time, and then hitting him and beating on him as he come by.
He wore the scars of the scorners.
But not only that, he also wore the scars of scourging.
We find over there in verse number three where it says there in verse number, excuse me, verse number five where it says, but he was wounded for our transgressions.
He was bruised for our iniquities.
His chastisement of our peace was upon him and with his stripes we are healed.
The same soldiers that took him out to crucify him is the one that laid the stripes upon him.
And as they laid those stripes upon him, my friend, I believe some people call it the cattle nine tails.
I don't really know.
But it could have been.
I mean, those Roman soldiers was some of the most cruel people in the world.
And they could come up with any kind of thing to torture somebody with.
And so you can just imagine that you have bones tied into the book of a leather throne.
and have that thing last that you just as hard to go and then pull back and last and pull back until his ribs showed the Bible teaches us.
He bore the scars of the scourgers.
And in the scourging, that scourging was reserved according to Roman law for the violist of criminals.
But Christ wasn't a criminal.
He was charged as being a criminal, but he was not a criminal.
He knew no sin, the Bible says.
He was whipped until he was cut and bleeding.
He was whipped to hide all the sins of every blood washed child of God.
All that was on his back.
And so not only that, but while he was there getting scourged, they put that crown of thorns on his head
And I already told you about those thorns being about that long and then being driven down into his brow.
And so let me tell you what those thorns represent.
They represent the curse.
Yes, sir.
You can read about the curse over in Genesis.
But they represent the curse.
I want you to get this picture now.
Every time a thorn
penetrated his brow.
It was for the curse of your sins and mine.
That's what it was for.
Now let's look at something else.
They were a picture of the curse on the earth.
Christ bore the curse of sin with that crown of thorns.
And he bore the scars in his blessed brow.
Let's look at the scars of the spikes for a minute.
I was sitting there today in the chair and I was reading about this, this particular point and I held my hand out like that.
Can you imagine looking at your hand and there's no scars in it?
But can you imagine him looking at his hand and a big old scar on that side, one on this side?
not only in that hand, but in this hand too.
And not only in this hand and this hand, but in both of his feet.
Can you imagine seeing those scars?
It had to be proven to Thomas that he was who he was with those scars in his hand.
And so what you see in here, my friend, is you see in the scars of the spikes.
The Bible said in Psalm 2216.
Let's just go over there for just a moment.
There's just a few pages back.
Psalm 2216.
I want to read you this.
Listen to what it says.
2216.
He said, for the dogs have come past me.
That's those Roman soldiers.
Then he goes on to look a little bit further.
He said, for the dogs have come past me.
It says the assembly of the wicked.
Those wicked people are those ones that cried out, crucify him, crucify him, you see.
And he said, and they pierce my hands and my feet.
So he wore those scarves.
That scarves in his hand, right hand, left hand, in his feet.
I'm going to give you some application in just a moment.
But I want you to know something about those scars in his hands.
His hands was hands of mercy.
He had mercy upon you and me.
Hands of mercy.
But not only hands of mercy, but there was hands of love also.
He so loved you.
that he allowed those scars to be put in his hands and in his feet.
And so what I'm trying to tell you that he had hands of love.
God said it like this in John 3 16, but God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son that whosoever believed in him should not perish but have everlasting life.
Paul wrote it like this.
He said, but God so loved you that Christ died for you.
I think he says it like this.
Let me see if I can see it right now.
Sometimes I get it, sometimes I don't.
But God commended his love toward us and that while that we were yet sinners that he died for us.
You can't get no better than that.
You can't find nobody any prettier than a savior.
You can't.
That's what I'm trying to tell you tonight.
That the scars in his feet, they pierced them as well.
Notice this about his feet.
His feet brings comfort.
Do you remember the story about Lazarus dying?
And there was Mary and Martha.
They were mourning over Lazarus.
They was weeping.
Do you remember what Mary said?
She said, Lord, if you'd only been here.
And so she knelt down in his feet, Lord, if you'd only been here,
My brother would not have died, but there was a reason for him tearing his coin.
What was that reason?
He wanted to make sure that everybody knew he was God.
And you know the rest of the story, how that Jesus said after he wept, he was as much human to weep as we are.
But he's also God when he said, come out of that grave.
And so what I'm trying to tell you is there's comfort at His feet.
Kneeling at His feet, kneeling and bowing at His feet.
I mean, it don't have to be a physical, I mean, it ain't no physical Jesus on this earth today, but there's a physical Jesus in heaven and we can talk to Him in heaven.
But what I'm trying to show to you today is that His feet were places of comfort.
Not only was His feet
place of comfort.
But the Bible tells us over in the book of Matthew chapter number 15 verse number 30 that all the people that was around that had infirmities that had that was lame on their feet that had issues of blood and all that stuff right there that they came to and made all those infirmities at his feet.
And what does that mean?
It simply means according to that my friend there's healing at the feet of Jesus.
That's what I'm talking about.
Ephesians 1-22 says it a little bit differently.
What does Ephesians 1-22 say?
It says, these scarred feet will have all things under them.
Paul wrote in 1 Corinthians 15-55, or 25, he says these scarred feet will put all his enemies under them.
That means those Roman soldiers.
That means all those wicked people that
That means all of them people that's rejected him in this life.
And there are people that's rejected him even today as I speak.
I think it's a good thing that the men went out and tried to find some of those people that had all these infirmities at them and was trying to talk to them about the Lord.
One thing I know for sure that every word those men
said today or yesterday, they'll have to give an account for.
They will.
And we're gonna have to give an account for some things too.
I don't know what it might be, but we do have to give an account for things.
Notice something else here.
He had a scar in his side.
That scar came to be in his side after he had
been crucified and after he had died.
And that scar was according to John chapter 1934 says, one of the soldiers with a spear pierced his side and out came water and blood.
The Bible says over here in verse number nine of the text, he said, and he made his grave with the wicked and with the rich in his death.
because he had done no violence and neither was any deceit found in his mouth.
You can't find anything wrong with him.
I mean, he's a perfect person.
And he walked as a perfect person on this earth.
And we need to recognize that he is perfect for our salvation, you see.
That's what I'm talking about here tonight.
His pure sight is a proof of his death.
It is.
Now let me just go on down and let me say this thing.
I wrote this down.
He said, if there, I said, if there were no death, there'd be no resurrection.
If there were no death and no resurrection, then the gospel and its message would not be true.
And I went on a little bit for us to say, if there were no death and no resurrection, then there would be no salvation.
Christ's death and the scar in his side is our guarantee that our sin debt has been paid.
You see, you say, how do you know that?
Well, I'm glad you asked me cause I'm going to tell you right from the Bible, Matthew chapter number 26 and verse number 28 at the Lord supper.
He's saying this right here, but this is my blood of the New Testament of the New Testament.
And so when I look at this a little bit further, I think about this.
These scars are proof of who he is.
Not only these scars proof of what he is, but these scars are trophies of his trophies for what?
My friend, I'll tell you what it is.
It is trophies for his triumph.
over death held in the grave and the devil.
That's what it is.
Not only that my friend, but these scars are a constant reminder of the price that he paid for all humanity.
You say three things these scars prove Jesus suffered.
Number two, another thing these scars prove he had sympathy on people.
You say, how do you know that preacher?
Well, the Bible says so.
I ain't gonna give you nothing the Bible don't say.
And the Bible says over in Hebrews chapter number two and verse number 18.
I believe it is.
It says this right here too in verse number 18.
He says, for in that he himself has suffered being tempted.
He is able to sucker them, sucker them that are tempted.
Otherwise he can take it away.
Notice something else he said over in chapter number four of Hebrews.
He said in verse 15, these words here, he said, for we have not on high priest, which cannot be touched with the feeling of our infirmities, but was in all points tempted like as we are.
What I'm trying to tell you tonight is that he bore the scarred and he bore the scarred to prove that he suffered to prove that he had sympathy on humanity.
not only to have sympathy on humanity, but he also, those scars prove that Jesus saves.
Jesus saves.
Now I will give you some application.
He was scarred for your sins and mine.
And also the sins of the whole world.
Now listen to this.
We are scarred
by sin, he was scarred for sin.
And as I was thinking about tonight, I thinking about now here's the application and I'm gonna be done.
As a matter of fact, you're gonna get four applications, five applications.
You cannot disrespect our Savior.
You cannot usher Him away.
Even though someone smacks you in the face, he was forgiving and we're supposed to be forgiving.
Doesn't the Bible tell us to turn the other cheek?
I got the thinking about that brother Jonathan.
He won't say anything about turning to second time.
After the second time, you might be able to say this.
I don't know what you will be enough.
Lord, let me just lay my salvation down for about five minutes.
I don't really think it works.
Have you ever had anybody smack you in the face as Christ was smacked in the face and hit in the face?
I have.
And I remember when that person smacked me in the face, telling him about the Lord, trying to witness to him.
I turned the cheek and I said, do you want to smack the other side too?
Boy, that was the foolish thing to say.
Because I'm going to tell you what, he sure did rattle my jaw.
I'll never say that again, Brother John.
You learn from your mistakes, you know.
If someone halls off and smacks you, just laugh at them.
That's what Andy Griffith told Opie to do when he got hit in the eye.
Just laugh at them.
How many of you think you could laugh at somebody hauling off and smacking you?
No, I know what you do.
You get all puffed up and mad and want to smack them back.
but let me tell you something, that's not the Christ way.
If you don't believe it, look over there at some, I mean, Matthew chapter 26, where it said he didn't open his mouth.
Sometimes it's best to keep your mouth shut, ain't it?
It is.
But every time he was spitting the face, every time that he was hit across the face,
Just remember this.
He allowed it for your sins and mine.
Your sins and mine.
Well, what about that scourging preacher?
Every time, every time he was laced with a whip and he left a stripe, that stripe was for your sins and mine.
Your sins and mine.
And not only that, when that crown of thorns went up on his head, he took the curse of your sins and mine away.
I'm giving you application now.
And then on top of that, you know, after that scourging and after those scars was put on his head, those spikes was put into his hands and his feet.
for your sins and mine.
For your sins and mine.
Aren't you glad tonight you know him as your savior?
Aren't you glad tonight to know that he done all that for you?
Aren't you glad tonight that all those scars that he bore was for your sin and mine?
And it's just like that passage of scripture that Brother Jonathan
I spoke on this morning, 1 John 1 9.
Every time that we do something wrong, every time that we mess up, every time a sin creeps into our lives, we have a savior that we can go to.
He's faithful and just to forgive us our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness.
And you know what that means?
Those scars that he bore for you and for me.
Scars of forgiveness.
And so when I come over here to think about that place inside, I think about this.
You say, what about it preacher?
I think about this.
We got a guarantee tonight.
It's all because of scars that he bore.
We got a guarantee and a hope for heaven tonight.
All because of the scars that he bore.
And the only way that you can see the beauty of Christ is through faith.
That's the only way.
You can't sometimes see it in the Word of God.
But everything that Christ bore for, He bore it for your sin and my sin.
And you can come to that piano if you want to.
But what I'm trying to say to you tonight is everything that Christ went through, from the time He was born, they tried to kill Him.
From the time that He went to the cross, Satan thought that He had Him put down.
But when he come out of that grave on the third day, old Satan lost the battle.
You know why?
It's because of the scars that he bore.
The scars that he bore.
Friend, let me tell you this to you.
Let me tell you this to you.
Next time you come to the house of God,
worship the Lord.
Next time you kneel down on your knees to pray to a Savior, next time you witness to somebody, just remember this, it's all because of the scars that he bore.